## 004
>Suppose someone, a parent maybe, a teacher or some other guardian, drags you back out into the light and makes you stay there. It would still be blinding [^1]. You could not look directly at things. Maybe the guardian prints out some pics of your family or maybe a map of the neighborhood, to acclimatize you, before you can look at things. Gradually you see the people around you, and what it is that they do. Then perhaps you remember the immense, immersive games of The Cave, and what passes for wisdom amongst those still stuck there. And so you return to The Cave, to talk or text to the other gamers about this world outside.


[^1]: Nick Krebs: "I'm interested to see if this particular distinction between the immense game world and real world will hold. Specifically what about the digital image/environment is alluring and immediately evident and comfortable to the gamer? I'm uncertain what about the real environment is blinding beyond a literal readjustment of the eyes to the sun. And even if the claim is true, that one is blinded by a different kind of knowledge or social organization, doesn't that enhance the immenseness of the real world? A world that one has a partial handle on and can sense that there is much beyond. The reference to the map is also interesting. Assuming we are talking about a gamer who lived in the real world, entered the cave, and has now exited it, the blinding nature of the real could partially be due to having to remap the geography around him/her. Unlike many games, the neighborhood cartography isn't static and is prone to daily change. In Grand Theft Auto one usually doesn't find the hospital, gun shop, etc by wandering the streets looking for visual signature of that type of building, but instead first refer to the map and find the appropriate symbol and then follow a guided dot to the location. Of course there is also convergence of these two worlds, where the real world assumes a homogonous nature from modernization and suburbanization and when Mapquest is used to distinguish places rather than architecture."
