## 005

You communicate to fellow gamers in The Cave about the outside world of which The Cave is just a shadow. Or try to. Plato: “And if the cave-dwellers had established, down there in the cave, certain prizes and distinctions for those who were most keen-sighted in seeing the passing shadows, and who were best able to remember what came before, and after, and simultaneously with what, thus best able to predict future appearances in the shadow-world, will our released prisoner hanker after these prizes or envy this power or honor?” [^1] You bet! The Cave is a world of pure agon, of competitive striving after distinction. But suppose you are that rare, stray, thoughtful gamer who decides to try this new game of getting beyond the game again? Suppose you emerge from The Cave and decide to take stock of the world beyond? You find that this other world is in some curious ways rather like The Cave. The pics of family, the map of the ‘hood, seem made of the same digital stuff as your favorites games inside The Cave. If there is a difference, it may not be quite what it seems.


[^1]: Plato, The Republic, translated by Desmond Lee (London: Penguin, 2003), p. 243, [516d]. Actually the translation used here is by Ted Sadler, and is quoted in Martin Heidegger, The Essence of Truth, (London: Continuum, 2002), p. 31. In Homo Ludens, (Boston: Beacon Press, 1950), Johan Huizinga perhaps first makes this move, of seeing reflective thought and competitive play as not being at odds, but rather the former being a consequence of the latter. See also Mihai Spariosu, God of Many Names: Play, Poetry and Power in Hellenic Thought from Homer to Aristotle, (Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 1991). However, my interest is less in the slippery category of play than in the more formally definable properties of the game. As Gregory Bateson says: "The difference between a game and just playing is that a game has rules." Steps to an Ecology of Mind, (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2000). 

---

## 005
