
[^1]: Roger Caillois, Man, Games and Play, (Urbana IL: University of Illinois Press, 2001), p. 114. This text is a standard in game studies, new and old, but rarely is Caillois put back into the political context of his time. In his Discourse on Colonialism, (New York: Monthly Review Press, 1972), pp. 73, Aimé Césaire indicts Caillois as a "thinker who, while claiming to be dedicated to rigorous logic, sacrifices so willingly to prejudice and wallows voluptuously in clichés." Caillois' version of ethnography is for Césaire premised on the superiority of the west, and while it is a quite different text that Césaire is attacking here, his indictment may also apply to Man, Play and Games, which makes a case for the superiority of a certain order of games which is distinctly European. 
## 013
>The gamer is not really interested in faith, although a heightened rhetoric of faith may fill the void carved out of the soul by the insinuations of gamespace. The gamer’s God is a game designer. He implants in everything a hidden algorithm. Faith is a matter of the intelligence to intuit the parameters of this geek design and score accordingly. All that is righteous wins; all that wins is righteous. To be a loser or a lamer is the mark of damnation. When you are a gamer, you are left with nothing to believe in but your own God-given abilities. Gamers confront each other in games of skill which reveal who has been chosen — chosen by the game as the one who has most fully internalized its algorithm. For those who despair of their abilities, there are games of chance, where grace reveals itself in the roll of the dice. Roger Caillois: “Chance is courted because hard work and personal qualifications are powerless to bring such success about.”[^1] The gambler may know what the gamer’s faith refuses to countenance.

---

## 013
