
[^1]: Raoul Vaneigem, The Revolution of Everyday Life, (London: Rebel Press, 2001), p. 264. 'Subversion' here translates 'detournément'. Elsewhere Vaneigem writes: "If cybernetics was taken from its masters, it might be able to free human groups from labor and from social alienation. This was precisely the project of Charles Fourier in an age when utopia was still possible." (p. 84) 
Guy Debord, Society of the Spectacle and Other Films, (London: Rebel Press, 1992). Debord was also, later in life, the creator of the Game of War. See Le Jeu de la Guerre : Relevé des Positions Successives de Toutes les Forces au Cours d'une Partie, (Paris: Gallimard, 2006). 
## 015
So this is the world as it appears to the gamer: a matrix of endlessly varying games — a gamespace — all reducible to the same principles, all producing the same kind of subject who belongs to this gamespace in the same way — as a gamer to a game. What would it mean to lift one’s eye from the target, to pause on the trigger, to unclench one’s ever-clicking finger? Is it even possible to think outside The CaveTM? Perhaps with the triumph of gamespace, what the gamer as theorist needs is to reconstruct the deleted files on those who thought pure play could be a radical option, who opposed gamespace with their revolutionary playdates. The Situationists, for example. Raoul Vaneigem: “Subversion… is an all embracing reinsertion of things into play. It is the act whereby play grasps and reunites beings and things hitherto frozen solid in a hierarchy of fragments.” Play, yes, but the game — no. Guy Debord: “I have scarcely begun to make you understand that I don’t intend to play the game.” Now there was a player unconcerned with an exit strategy.[^1]

---
## 015
