
[^1]:  Paula Berinstein: "Sorry to be so picky, but 'opiate' isn't a verb."
Kathy Fitch: "I'm not usually a fan of rampant verbing of nouns, either, but there's something kind of fetching about 'opiate' as a verb in this context, because it made me think of Opie of Mayberry, USA--one of the epicenters of imaginary solutions to real problems. [On the Andy Griffith Show, where Ron Howard played Opie.] So, the poet trumps the grammarian, this time."

## 007
>The game has colonized its rivals within the cultural realm, from the spectacle of cinema to the simulations of television. Stories no longer opiate us with imaginary reconciliations of real problems. The story just recounts the steps by which someone beat someone else — a real victory for imaginary stakes. The only original screen genre of the early 21st century is not called “reality TV” for nothing. Brenton & Cohen: “By signing their release forms, contestants agree to end up as statistics, each player’s feelings and actions manipulated… leading to infidelity, tears, perhaps heartbreak.” Sure, reality TV doesn’t look like reality, but then neither does reality. Both look like games. Both become a seamless space in which gamers test their abilities within contrived scenarios. The situations may be artificial, the dialogue less than spontaneous, and the gamers may merely be doing what the producers tell them. All this is perfectly of a piece with a reality which is itself an artificial arena, where everyone is already a gamer, waiting for their turn.[^1]

---
## 007
