> Karl Marx, “Critique of the Gotha Programme,” The First International and After: Political Writings, Vol. 3 (Harmondsworth: Penguin, 1974), p. 347. The phrase may have originated with Louis Blanc. In Rationalizing Capitalist Democracy: The Cold War Origins of Rational Choice Liberalism (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2003), S. M. Amadae points out that “decision technologies” such as game theory were directly the product of attempts to provide an intellectual counter-weight to Marxist theory during the cold war. Where Schumpeter, Friedrich von Hayek, and Karl Popper had all made defenses of liberal capitalism that recognized the intellectual glamor of Marxism, the economist Kenneth Arrow produced a complete and systematic rejection of socialist theory of any kind. In Arrow’s hands, this becomes an attack on the very principle of a general will, or the social construction of needs. Arrow, in short, becomes the ideologue of gamespace. Collective rationality, or the rationality of ends, is impossible. Only individuals and their rankings of preferences remain. We return to the consequences of this achievement in “Conclusions.” Interestingly, the decision technologies of cold war America find their complete antithesis not so much in Soviet social planning as Situationist critique. Where rational choice theories attempt a concept of game that excludes play, the Situationists attempt a concept of play outside the game: from each according to their abilities; to each according to their desires.
